README.md, before:

# *dregsy* - Docker Registry Sync


## Synopsis
*dregsy* lets you sync *Docker* images between registries, public or private. Several sync tasks can be defined, as one-off or periodic tasks (see *Configuration* section). An image is synced by using a *sync relay*. Currently, this can be either [*Skopeo*](https://github.com/containers/skopeo) or a local *Docker* daemon. When using the latter, the image is first pulled from the source, then tagged for the destination, and finally pushed there. *Skopeo* in contrast, can directly transfer an image from source to destination, which makes it the preferred choice.


## Configuration
Sync tasks are defined in a YAML config file:

```yaml
# relay type, either 'skopeo' or 'docker'
relay: skopeo

# relay config sections
skopeo:
  # path to the skopeo binary; defaults to 'skopeo', in which case it needs to
  # be in PATH
  binary: skopeo
  # directory under which to look for client certs & keys, as well as CA certs
  # (see note below)
  certs-dir: /etc/skopeo/certs.d

docker:
  # Docker host to use as the relay
  dockerhost: unix:///var/run/docker.sock
  # Docker API version to use, defaults to 1.24
  api-version: 1.24

# list of sync tasks
tasks:

  - name: task1 # required

    # interval in seconds at which the task should be run; when omitted,
    # the task is only run once at start-up
    interval: 60

    # determines whether for this task, more verbose output should be
    # produced; defaults to false when omitted
    verbose: true

    # 'source' and 'target' are both required and describe the source and
    # target registries for this task:
    #  - 'registry' points to the server; required
    #  - 'auth' contains the base64 encoded credentials for the registry
    #    in JSON form {"username": "...", "password": "..."}
    #  - 'auth-refresh' specifies an interval for automatic retrieval of
    #    credentials; only for AWS ECR (see below)
    #  - 'skip-tls-verify' determines whether to skip TLS verification for the
    #    registry server (only for 'skopeo', see note below); defaults to false
    source:
      registry: source-registry.acme.com
      auth: eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJhbGV4IiwgInBhc3N3b3JkIjogInNlY3JldCJ9Cg==
    target:
      registry: dest-registry.acme.com
      auth: eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJhbGV4IiwgInBhc3N3b3JkIjogImFsc29zZWNyZXQifQo=
      skip-tls-verify: true

    # 'mappings' is a list of 'from':'to' pairs that define mappings of image
    # paths in the source registry to paths in the destination; 'from' is
    # required, while 'to' can be dropped if the path should remain the same as
    # 'from'. Additionally, the tags being synced for a mapping can be limited
    # by providing a 'tags' list. When omitted, all image tags are synced.
    mappings:
      - from: test/image
        to: archive/test/image
        tags: ['0.1.0', '0.1.1']
      - from: test/another-image
```


### Caveats

When syncing via a *Docker* relay, do not use the same *Docker* daemon for building local images (even better: don't use it for anything else but syncing). There is a risk that the reference to a locally built image clashes with the shorthand notation for a reference to an image on `docker.io`. E.g. if you built a local image `busybox`, then this would be indistinguishable from the shorthand `busybox` pointing to `docker.io/library/busybox`. One way to avoid this is to use `registry.hub.docker.com` instead of `docker.io` in references, which would never get shortened. If you're not syncing from/to `docker.io`, then all of this is not a concern.

### Repository Validation & Client Authentication with TLS

When connecting to source and target repository servers, TLS validation is performed to verify the identity of a server. If you're using self-signed certificates for a repo server, or a server's certificate cannot be validated with the CA bundle available on your system, you need to provide the required CA certs. (The *dregsy* *Docker* image includes the CA bundle from the official `golang` image). Also, if a repo server requires client authentication, i.e. mutual TLS, you need to provide an appropriate client key & cert pair.

How you do that for *Docker* is [described here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/certificates/). The short version: create a folder under `/etc/docker/certs.d` with the same name as the repo server's host name, e.g. `source-registry.acme.com`, and place any required CA certs there as `*.crt` (mind the extension). Client key & cert pairs go there as well, as `*.key` and `*.cert`.

Example:

```
/etc/docker/certs.d/
    └── source-registry.acme.com
       ├── client.cert
       ├── client.key
       └── ca.crt
```

When using the `skopeo` relay, this is essentially the same, except that you specify the root folder with the `skopeo` setting `certs-dir` (defaults to `/etc/skopeo/certs.d`). However, it's important to note the following differences:

- When a repo server uses a non-standard port, the port number is included in image references when pulling and pushing. For TLS validation, `docker` will accordingly expect a `{registry host name}:{port}` folder. For `skopeo`, this is not the case, i.e. the port number is dropped from the folder name. This was a conscious decision to avoid pain when running *dregsy* in *Kubernetes* and mounting certs & keys from secrets: [mount paths must not contain `:`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.13/#volumemount-v1-core).

- To skip TLS verification for a particular repo server when using the `docker` relay, you need to [configure the *Docker* daemon accordingly](https://docs.docker.com/registry/insecure/). With `skopeo`, you can easily set this in any source or target definition with the `skip-tls-verify` setting.


### *AWS ECR*

If a source or target is an *AWS ECR* registry, you need to retrieve the `auth` credentials via *AWS CLI*. They would however only be good for 12 hours, which is ok for one off tasks. For periodic tasks, or to avoid retrieving the credentials manually, you can specify an `auth-refresh` interval as a *Go* `Duration`, e.g. `10h`. If set, *dregsy* will initially and whenever the refresh interval has expired retrieve new access credentials. `auth` can be omitted when `auth-refresh` is set. Setting `auth-refresh` for anything other than an *AWS ECR* registry will raise an error.

Note however that you either need to set environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` for the *AWS* account you want to use and a user with sufficient permissions. Or if you're running *dregsy* on an *EC2* instance in your *AWS* account, the machine should have an appropriate instance profile. An according policy could look like this:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ecr:GetAuthorizationToken",
        "ecr:CreateRepository"
      ],
      "Resource": ["*"]
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ecr:GetDownloadUrlForLayer",
        "ecr:BatchGetImage",
        "ecr:BatchCheckLayerAvailability",
        "ecr:DescribeRepositories",
        "ecr:PutImage",
        "ecr:InitiateLayerUpload",
        "ecr:UploadLayerPart",
        "ecr:CompleteLayerUpload"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:ecr:<your_region>:<your_account>:repository/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

### *GCR (Google Cloud Platform)*

If a source or target is a *Google Container Registry (GCR)*, `auth` may be omitted altogether. In this case either `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` variable must be set (which is supposed to contain a path to a JSON file with credentials for a *GCP* service account), or *dregsy* must be run on a *GCE* instance with an appropriate service account attached. In case of *GCR*, `registry` must be specified as any of *GCR* addresses (i.e. `gcr.io`, `us.gcr.io`, `eu.gcr.io`, or `asia.gcr.io`), while the `from/to` mapping must include your *GCP* project name (i.e. `your-project-123/your-image`). Note that `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`, if set, takes precedence even on a *GCE* instance.

If you want to use *GCR* as the source for a public image, you can deactivate authentication all together by setting `auth` to `none`.

## Usage

```bash
dregsy -config={path to config file}
```

If there are any periodic sync tasks defined (see *Configuration* above), *dregsy* remains running indefinitely. Otherwise, it will return once all one-off tasks have been processed.

### Logging
Logging behavior can be changed with these environment variables:

| variable     | function   | values                                            |
|--------------|------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `LOG_LEVEL`  | log level; defaults to `info` | `fatal`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`, `trace`|
| `LOG_FORMAT` | log format; gets automatically switched to *JSON* when *dregsy* is run without a TTY | `json` to force *JSON* log format, `text` to force text output |
| `LOG_FORCE_COLORS` | force colored log messages when running with a TTY | `true`, `false` |
| `LOG_METHODS` | include method names in log messages | `true`, `false` |

### Running Natively
If you run *dregsy* natively on your system, with relay type `docker`, the *Docker* daemon of your system will be used as the relay for all sync tasks, so all synced images will wind up in the *Docker* storage of that daemon.

### Running Inside a *Docker* Container
You can use the [*dregsy* image on Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/xelalex/dregsy/) for running *dregsy* containerized.

#### With `skopeo` relay
The image includes the `skopeo` binary, so all that's needed is:

```bash
docker run --rm -v {path to config file}:/config.yaml xelalex/dregsy
```

#### With `docker` relay
This will still use the local *Docker* daemon as the relay:

```bash
docker run --privileged --rm -v {path to config file}:/config.yaml -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock xelalex/dregsy
```

### Running On *Kubernetes*

When you run a *Docker* registry inside your *Kubernetes* cluster as an image cache, *dregsy* can come in handy as an automated updater for that cache. The example config below uses the `skopeo` relay:

```yaml
relay: skopeo
tasks:
  - name: task1
    interval: 60
    source:
      registry: registry.acme.com
      auth: eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJhbGV4IiwgInBhc3N3b3JkIjogInNlY3JldCJ9Cg==
    target:
      registry: registry.my-cluster
      auth: eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJhbGV4IiwgInBhc3N3b3JkIjogImFsc29zZWNyZXQifQo=
    mappings:
      - from: test/image
        to: archive/test/image
      - from: test/another-image
```

To keep your registry auth tokens in the config file secure, we are creating a Kubernetes _Secret_ instead of a _ConfigMap_:

```sh
kubectl create secret generic dregsy-config --from-file=./config.yaml
```

In addition, you will most likely want to mount client certs & keys, and CA certs from *Kubernetes* secrets into the pod for TLS validation to work. (The CA bundle from the official `golang` image is already included in the *dregsy* image.)

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1beta1
kind: StatefulSet
metadata:
  name: kube-registry-updater
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    k8s-app: kube-registry-updater
    kubernetes.io/cluster-service: "true"
spec:
  serviceName: kube-registry-updater
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        k8s-app: kube-registry-updater
        kubernetes.io/cluster-service: "true"
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: dregsy
        image: xelalex/dregsy
        command: ['dregsy', '-config=/config/config.yaml']
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 10m
            memory: 32Mi
        volumeMounts:
        - name: dregsy-config
          mountPath: /config
          readOnly: true
      volumes:
      - name: dregsy-config
        secret:
          secretName: dregsy-config
```


## Development

### Building

The `Makefile` has targets for building the binary and *Docker* image, and other stuff. Just run `make` to get a list of the targets, and info about configuration items. Note that for consistency, building is done inside a *Golang* build container, so you will need *Docker* to build. *dregsy*'s *Docker* image is based on *Alpine*, and installs *Skopeo* via `apk` during the image build.

### Testing

Tests are also started via the `Makefile`. To run the tests, you will need to prepare the following:

- Configure the *Docker* daemon: The tests run containerized, but need access to the local *Docker* daemon for testing the *Docker* relay. One way is to mount the `/var/run/docker.socks` socket into the container (the `Makefile` takes care of that). However, the `docker` group on the host may not map onto the group of the user inside the testing container. The preferred way is therefore to let the *Docker* daemon listen on `127.0.0.1:2375`. Since the testing container runs with host network, the tests can access this directly. Decide which setup to use and configure the *Docker* daemon accordingly. Additionally, set it to accept `127.0.0.1:5000` as an insecure registry.

- An *AWS* account to test syncing with *ECR*: Create a technical user in that account. This user should have full *ECR* permissions, i.e. the `AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryFullAccess` policy attached, since it will delete the used repo after the tests are done.

- A *Google Cloud* account to test syncing with *GCR*: Create a project with the *Container Registry* API enabled. In that project, you need a service account with the roles *Cloud Build Service Agent* and *Storage Object Admin* enabled, since this service account also will need to delete the synced images again after the tests.

The details for above requirements are configured via a `.makerc` file in the root of this project. Just run `make` and check the *Notes* section in the help output. Here's an example:

```make
# Docker config; to use the Unix socket, set to unix:///var/run/docker.sock
DREGSY_TEST_DOCKERHOST = tcp://127.0.0.1:2375

# ECR
DREGSY_TEST_ECR_REGISTRY = {account ID}.dkr.ecr.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com
DREGSY_TEST_ECR_REPO = dregsy/test
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID = {key ID}
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = {access key}

# GCR
DREGSY_TEST_GCR_HOST = eu.gcr.io
DREGSY_TEST_GCR_PROJECT = {your project}
DREGSY_TEST_GCR_IMAGE = dregsy/test
GCP_CREDENTIALS = {full path to access JSON of service account}
```

Commit message:

[wip] initial regexp filtering support

README.md, after:

# *dregsy* - Docker Registry Sync

## TODO
- make sure token is used wherever possible (index lister and push/pull on all registries that are not GCR or ECR are still using user/pass)
- regexp replacements in To mapping
- regexp tests


## Synopsis
*dregsy* lets you sync *Docker* images between registries, public or private. Several sync tasks can be defined, as one-off or periodic tasks (see *Configuration* section). An image is synced by using a *sync relay*. Currently, this can be either [*Skopeo*](https://github.com/containers/skopeo) or a local *Docker* daemon. When using the latter, the image is first pulled from the source, then tagged for the destination, and finally pushed there. *Skopeo* in contrast, can directly transfer an image from source to destination, which makes it the preferred choice.


## Configuration
Sync tasks are defined in a YAML config file:

```yaml
# relay type, either 'skopeo' or 'docker'
relay: skopeo

# relay config sections
skopeo:
  # path to the skopeo binary; defaults to 'skopeo', in which case it needs to
  # be in PATH
  binary: skopeo
  # directory under which to look for client certs & keys, as well as CA certs
  # (see note below)
  certs-dir: /etc/skopeo/certs.d

docker:
  # Docker host to use as the relay
  dockerhost: unix:///var/run/docker.sock
  # Docker API version to use, defaults to 1.24
  api-version: 1.24

# list of sync tasks
tasks:

  - name: task1 # required

    # interval in seconds at which the task should be run; when omitted,
    # the task is only run once at start-up
    interval: 60

    # determines whether for this task, more verbose output should be
    # produced; defaults to false when omitted
    verbose: true

    # 'source' and 'target' are both required and describe the source and
    # target registries for this task:
    #  - 'registry' points to the server; required
    #  - 'auth' contains the base64 encoded credentials for the registry
    #    in JSON form {"username": "...", "password": "..."}
    #  - 'auth-refresh' specifies an interval for automatic retrieval of
    #    credentials; only for AWS ECR (see below)
    #  - 'skip-tls-verify' determines whether to skip TLS verification for the
    #    registry server (only for 'skopeo', see note below); defaults to false
    source:
      registry: source-registry.acme.com
      auth: eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJhbGV4IiwgInBhc3N3b3JkIjogInNlY3JldCJ9Cg==
    target:
      registry: dest-registry.acme.com
      auth: eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJhbGV4IiwgInBhc3N3b3JkIjogImFsc29zZWNyZXQifQo=
      skip-tls-verify: true

    # 'mappings' is a list of 'from':'to' pairs that define mappings of image
    # paths in the source registry to paths in the destination; 'from' is
    # required, while 'to' can be dropped if the path should remain the same as
    # 'from'. Additionally, the tags being synced for a mapping can be limited
    # by providing a 'tags' list. When omitted, all image tags are synced.
    mappings:
      - from: test/image
        to: archive/test/image
        tags: ['0.1.0', '0.1.1']
      - from: test/another-image
```


### Caveats

When syncing via a *Docker* relay, do not use the same *Docker* daemon for building local images (even better: don't use it for anything else but syncing). There is a risk that the reference to a locally built image clashes with the shorthand notation for a reference to an image on `docker.io`. E.g. if you built a local image `busybox`, then this would be indistinguishable from the shorthand `busybox` pointing to `docker.io/library/busybox`. One way to avoid this is to use `registry.hub.docker.com` instead of `docker.io` in references, which would never get shortened. If you're not syncing from/to `docker.io`, then all of this is not a concern.

### Repository Validation & Client Authentication with TLS

When connecting to source and target repository servers, TLS validation is performed to verify the identity of a server. If you're using self-signed certificates for a repo server, or a server's certificate cannot be validated with the CA bundle available on your system, you need to provide the required CA certs. (The *dregsy* *Docker* image includes the CA bundle from the official `golang` image). Also, if a repo server requires client authentication, i.e. mutual TLS, you need to provide an appropriate client key & cert pair.

How you do that for *Docker* is [described here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/certificates/). The short version: create a folder under `/etc/docker/certs.d` with the same name as the repo server's host name, e.g. `source-registry.acme.com`, and place any required CA certs there as `*.crt` (mind the extension). Client key & cert pairs go there as well, as `*.key` and `*.cert`.

Example:

```
/etc/docker/certs.d/
    └── source-registry.acme.com
       ├── client.cert
       ├── client.key
       └── ca.crt
```

When using the `skopeo` relay, this is essentially the same, except that you specify the root folder with the `skopeo` setting `certs-dir` (defaults to `/etc/skopeo/certs.d`). However, it's important to note the following differences:

- When a repo server uses a non-standard port, the port number is included in image references when pulling and pushing. For TLS validation, `docker` will accordingly expect a `{registry host name}:{port}` folder. For `skopeo`, this is not the case, i.e. the port number is dropped from the folder name. This was a conscious decision to avoid pain when running *dregsy* in *Kubernetes* and mounting certs & keys from secrets: [mount paths must not contain `:`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.13/#volumemount-v1-core).

- To skip TLS verification for a particular repo server when using the `docker` relay, you need to [configure the *Docker* daemon accordingly](https://docs.docker.com/registry/insecure/). With `skopeo`, you can easily set this in any source or target definition with the `skip-tls-verify` setting.


### *AWS ECR*

If a source or target is an *AWS ECR* registry, you need to retrieve the `auth` credentials via *AWS CLI*. They would however only be good for 12 hours, which is ok for one off tasks. For periodic tasks, or to avoid retrieving the credentials manually, you can specify an `auth-refresh` interval as a *Go* `Duration`, e.g. `10h`. If set, *dregsy* will initially and whenever the refresh interval has expired retrieve new access credentials. `auth` can be omitted when `auth-refresh` is set. Setting `auth-refresh` for anything other than an *AWS ECR* registry will raise an error.

Note however that you either need to set environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` for the *AWS* account you want to use and a user with sufficient permissions. Or if you're running *dregsy* on an *EC2* instance in your *AWS* account, the machine should have an appropriate instance profile. An according policy could look like this:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ecr:GetAuthorizationToken",
        "ecr:CreateRepository"
      ],
      "Resource": ["*"]
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ecr:GetDownloadUrlForLayer",
        "ecr:BatchGetImage",
        "ecr:BatchCheckLayerAvailability",
        "ecr:DescribeRepositories",
        "ecr:PutImage",
        "ecr:InitiateLayerUpload",
        "ecr:UploadLayerPart",
        "ecr:CompleteLayerUpload"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:ecr:<your_region>:<your_account>:repository/*"
    }
  ]
}
```

### *GCR (Google Cloud Platform)*

If a source or target is a *Google Container Registry (GCR)*, `auth` may be omitted altogether. In this case either `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` variable must be set (which is supposed to contain a path to a JSON file with credentials for a *GCP* service account), or *dregsy* must be run on a *GCE* instance with an appropriate service account attached. In case of *GCR*, `registry` must be specified as any of *GCR* addresses (i.e. `gcr.io`, `us.gcr.io`, `eu.gcr.io`, or `asia.gcr.io`), while the `from/to` mapping must include your *GCP* project name (i.e. `your-project-123/your-image`). Note that `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`, if set, takes precedence even on a *GCE* instance.

If you want to use *GCR* as the source for a public image, you can deactivate authentication all together by setting `auth` to `none`.

## Usage

```bash
dregsy -config={path to config file}
```

If there are any periodic sync tasks defined (see *Configuration* above), *dregsy* remains running indefinitely. Otherwise, it will return once all one-off tasks have been processed.

### Logging
Logging behavior can be changed with these environment variables:

| variable     | function   | values                                            |
|--------------|------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `LOG_LEVEL`  | log level; defaults to `info` | `fatal`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`, `trace`|
| `LOG_FORMAT` | log format; gets automatically switched to *JSON* when *dregsy* is run without a TTY | `json` to force *JSON* log format, `text` to force text output |
| `LOG_FORCE_COLORS` | force colored log messages when running with a TTY | `true`, `false` |
| `LOG_METHODS` | include method names in log messages | `true`, `false` |

### Running Natively
If you run *dregsy* natively on your system, with relay type `docker`, the *Docker* daemon of your system will be used as the relay for all sync tasks, so all synced images will wind up in the *Docker* storage of that daemon.

### Running Inside a *Docker* Container
You can use the [*dregsy* image on Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/xelalex/dregsy/) for running *dregsy* containerized.

#### With `skopeo` relay
The image includes the `skopeo` binary, so all that's needed is:

```bash
docker run --rm -v {path to config file}:/config.yaml xelalex/dregsy
```

#### With `docker` relay
This will still use the local *Docker* daemon as the relay:

```bash
docker run --privileged --rm -v {path to config file}:/config.yaml -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock xelalex/dregsy
```

### Running On *Kubernetes*

When you run a *Docker* registry inside your *Kubernetes* cluster as an image cache, *dregsy* can come in handy as an automated updater for that cache. The example config below uses the `skopeo` relay:

```yaml
relay: skopeo
tasks:
  - name: task1
    interval: 60
    source:
      registry: registry.acme.com
      auth: eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJhbGV4IiwgInBhc3N3b3JkIjogInNlY3JldCJ9Cg==
    target:
      registry: registry.my-cluster
      auth: eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ICJhbGV4IiwgInBhc3N3b3JkIjogImFsc29zZWNyZXQifQo=
    mappings:
      - from: test/image
        to: archive/test/image
      - from: test/another-image
```

To keep your registry auth tokens in the config file secure, we are creating a Kubernetes _Secret_ instead of a _ConfigMap_:

```sh
kubectl create secret generic dregsy-config --from-file=./config.yaml
```

In addition, you will most likely want to mount client certs & keys, and CA certs from *Kubernetes* secrets into the pod for TLS validation to work. (The CA bundle from the official `golang` image is already included in the *dregsy* image.)

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1beta1
kind: StatefulSet
metadata:
  name: kube-registry-updater
  namespace: kube-system
  labels:
    k8s-app: kube-registry-updater
    kubernetes.io/cluster-service: "true"
spec:
  serviceName: kube-registry-updater
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        k8s-app: kube-registry-updater
        kubernetes.io/cluster-service: "true"
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: dregsy
        image: xelalex/dregsy
        command: ['dregsy', '-config=/config/config.yaml']
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: 10m
            memory: 32Mi
        volumeMounts:
        - name: dregsy-config
          mountPath: /config
          readOnly: true
      volumes:
      - name: dregsy-config
        secret:
          secretName: dregsy-config
```


## Development

### Building

The `Makefile` has targets for building the binary and *Docker* image, and other stuff. Just run `make` to get a list of the targets, and info about configuration items. Note that for consistency, building is done inside a *Golang* build container, so you will need *Docker* to build. *dregsy*'s *Docker* image is based on *Alpine*, and installs *Skopeo* via `apk` during the image build.

### Testing

Tests are also started via the `Makefile`. To run the tests, you will need to prepare the following:

- Configure the *Docker* daemon: The tests run containerized, but need access to the local *Docker* daemon for testing the *Docker* relay. One way is to mount the `/var/run/docker.socks` socket into the container (the `Makefile` takes care of that). However, the `docker` group on the host may not map onto the group of the user inside the testing container. The preferred way is therefore to let the *Docker* daemon listen on `127.0.0.1:2375`. Since the testing container runs with host network, the tests can access this directly. Decide which setup to use and configure the *Docker* daemon accordingly. Additionally, set it to accept `127.0.0.1:5000` as an insecure registry.

- An *AWS* account to test syncing with *ECR*: Create a technical user in that account. This user should have full *ECR* permissions, i.e. the `AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryFullAccess` policy attached, since it will delete the used repo after the tests are done.

- A *Google Cloud* account to test syncing with *GCR*: Create a project with the *Container Registry* API enabled. In that project, you need a service account with the roles *Cloud Build Service Agent* and *Storage Object Admin* enabled, since this service account also will need to delete the synced images again after the tests.

The details for above requirements are configured via a `.makerc` file in the root of this project. Just run `make` and check the *Notes* section in the help output. Here's an example:

```make
# Docker config; to use the Unix socket, set to unix:///var/run/docker.sock
DREGSY_TEST_DOCKERHOST = tcp://127.0.0.1:2375

# ECR
DREGSY_TEST_ECR_REGISTRY = {account ID}.dkr.ecr.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com
DREGSY_TEST_ECR_REPO = dregsy/test
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID = {key ID}
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY = {access key}

# GCR
DREGSY_TEST_GCR_HOST = eu.gcr.io
DREGSY_TEST_GCR_PROJECT = {your project}
DREGSY_TEST_GCR_IMAGE = dregsy/test
GCP_CREDENTIALS = {full path to access JSON of service account}
```
